Caitlin Davies
Initial Capstone Proposal
28th August 2018

1. HYPOTHESIS : Extreme changes in precipiation and tempurature predict Minnesota agricultural output

	Climate change is not changing the climate equally across the globe. Some locations are wetter on average; others are drier. Still others are experiencing extreme swings between both flooding and drought. Tempuratures are also rising everywhere. Any extreme in precipitation or tempurature will affect agricultural output. 

	Predicting agricultural output using changes in climate is an interesting problem to solve, because climate change will make growing food harder, and if we can understand how it will be affected, then we can adapt growing practices. 

	Additionally, Minnesota is a "bread basket", so narrowing down the problem to Minnesota allow us to narrow the problem without limiting the data. 

	Climate data for Minnesota will be gathered from the Midwestern Regional Climate Center;

		http://mrcc.isws.illinois.edu/CLIMATE/ 

	Agricultural data for Minnesota will be gathered from the United States Department of Agriculture;

		https://quickstats.nass.usda.gov/


	Project Goals
		* Identify historical patterns of precipitation, tempurature and agricultural output in the state of Minnesota.
		* Forecast agricultural output using precipitation and tempurature patterns in the state of Minnesota. 



2. HYPOTHESIS : US Counties can be categorized by likelihood of drought over time

	Droughts are a natural occurance, but they have been increasing in likelihood and severity over the last few decades. Counties have been historically categorized by severity of drought, but not likelihood. 

	Categorizing drought by likelihood over time is an interesting problem to solve, because it allows us to observe how likelihood of drought has increased (or decreased) by county, and will allow us to predict likelihood of drought in the future.

	Drought data will be obtained from the United States Drought Monitor;

		http://droughtmonitor.unl.edu/Data/DataDownload/ComprehensiveStatistics.aspx

	Project Goals
		* Categorize county by likelihood of drought within X timeframe (likely by year or decade).
		* Predict future likelihood of drought using the categorized data. 



3. HYPOTHESIS : Historic agriculture commodity prices predict future agricultural commodity prices

	Many agricultural products are treated as commodities, i.e. they are raw goods that are bought and sold at variable pricing. These prices rise and fall due to a variety of factors, and I hypothesize that future prices can be predicted using historical prices. 

	Predicting commodity prices is an interesting problem to solve, because commodity prices rise and fall much like the stock market, and predicting prices would help farmers determine what commodities to invest in. 

	Historical commodity price data will be gathered from the USDA;

	http://usda.mannlib.cornell.edu/usda/nass/92152/index.html

	Project Goals
		* Identify historical patterns of commodity pricing.
		* Forecast commodity pricing.
